organizers of the Eurovision song
contest say they are assessing whether
Israel's entry breaks the rules on
political neutrality after it was
claimed that singer Eden Goan song
October rain made reference to the
current conflict in Gaza well Israel has
warned that it would withdraw from the
competition if the ballot is censored
well there are two specific sets of
lyrics that have caused uproar I can
read some of them to you now who told
you Boys Don't Cry hours and hours and
flowers life is not a game for the
cowards now the reference to flowers is
significant because according to the
Israel hom newspaper it is a military
slang term for war fatalities and these
are the other set of lyrics that are
being scrutinized there's no air left to
breathe there's no place no me from day
today well let's cross live now and
speak to Adrien Bradley who joins us on
the world today he's an Eurovision
expert Adrian good to talk to you uh
talk to me first of all about what the
main controversy is here between the two
sides between Eurovision and
Israel so this there's been quite
ongoing pressure from a number of
countries that are entering Eurovision
about Israel's participation in the
Eurovision the Ebu have been very clear
that they're not they don't want to ban
Israel they've said that it's a
competition for broadcast is not
governments and they've said that the
the broadcast itself has complied with
all the rules but when it comes to the
song The Ebu has really strict rules on
politics in songs they' banned songs
before and this is area where they're in
dispute with Israel right now and it's
we don't know exactly we we we've heard
from papers some reports of What lyrics
are ow and the broadcaster can publish
the entire lyrics of the song for
everybody to see on Wednesday night
after these were leaked because the song
itself wasn't due to be released um for
another couple of weeks
but the normal process is that the Ebu
will approve or not approve a song and
if Israel if it isn't approved and
Israel don't make Chang ches or don't
submit another song they won't be able
to take part in Eurovision and it feels
doesn't it Adrian that Israel is saying
look we're not going to change the song
it's this or we're out it does feel like
that and there there's kind of been
precedent for this in 2021 bellarus were
disqualified this was around the
political crisis that was going on in
their country and the ACT their were
told to change their song now this was a
band that used to mock anti-government
protesters in their songs and believed
in the lyrics they've done that again
they were asked to change the song they
did actually put in a new song which the
Ebu said was also inappropriate at that
point they were disqualified and it also
happened in 2009 Georgia had a had a
song called We don't want we don't want
to put in which the Ebu said the lyrics
were criticism of a Russian leader which
uh Georgia denied they refused to change
it and pulled out of a contest that year
so that there's been precedent for this
it does sound like from all the
statements that can be Israeli
broadcasters made that they aren't going
to back down so they're asked to make
any ch to the song they won't take part
um and we're getting very close to when
there has to be a deadline so March the
11th is the deadline when all the
delegations get together and the songs
have to be agreed so if they haven't
come to agreement by then they won't be
taking part okay Adrien Bradley good to
talk to you thank you very much
indeed